# Goal
Nothing better to get firt inpression about a software libary than to print "Hello World' on the screen!  
But since (tu khi) we are dealing (xu li) with multimedia framework, we are going to play a video instead (thay the).  
Do not be scared by amount (so luong) of code below: there are on ly 4 lines which do _real_ work. The rest (phan con lai) is cleanup code, and, in C, this is always a bit (1 chut) verbose (dai dong).  
Without further ado, get ready for your firt GStrearmer application
# 1. Hello world
Copy thís code a text file named basic-totorial-1.c (or find it in your GStreamer installation).  
**basic-tutorial-1.c**  
```C
#include <gst/gst.h>

int
main (int argc, char *argv[])
{
  GstElement *pipeline;
  GstBus *bus;
  GstMessage *msg;

  /* Initialize GStreamer */
  gst_init (&argc, &argv);

  /* Build the pipeline */
  pipeline =
      gst_parse_launch
      ("playbin uri=https://www.freedesktop.org/software/gstreamer-sdk/data/media/sintel_trailer-480p.webm",
      NULL);

  /* Start playing */
  gst_element_set_state (pipeline, GST_STATE_PLAYING);

  /* Wait until error or EOS */
  bus = gst_element_get_bus (pipeline);
  msg =
      gst_bus_timed_pop_filtered (bus, GST_CLOCK_TIME_NONE,
      GST_MESSAGE_ERROR | GST_MESSAGE_EOS);

  /* Free resources */
  if (msg != NULL)
    gst_message_unref (msg);
  gst_object_unref (bus);
  gst_element_set_state (pipeline, GST_STATE_NULL);
  gst_object_unref (pipeline);
  return 0;
}
```
If everything built fine, fire up (kích hoạt) the executable (tệp thực thi)! You should see a window pop up (bật lên), containing a video being playes straight (thẳng) from internet, along with (cùng với) audio. Congratulations!  
This tutorial opens a window and displays a movie, with accompanying (di cung) audio. The media is fetched (lay) from the Internet, so the window might take a few seconds to appear (xuat hien), depending (tuy) on your connection speed. Also, there is no latency (do tre) management (buffering - đệm), so on slow connections, the movie might stop after a few seconds. See how [Basic tutorial 12: Streaming](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/documentation/tutorials/basic/streaming.html) solves this issue.
# 2. Walkthrough (huong dan)
Let's review these lines of code and see what they do:
```C
 /* Initialize GStreamer */
  gst_init (&argc, &argv);
```  
This must always be your first GStreamer command. Among other things, gst_init():
* Initializes all internal (nội bộ) structures
* Checks what plug-ins (bổ sung) are available (khả dụng)
* Executes any command-line option intended (dự định) for GStreamer
If you always pass your command-line parameters argc and argv to gst_init() your application will automatically benefit from the GStreamer standard command-line (dòng lệnh) options (more on this in [Basic tutorial 10: GStreamer tools](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/documentation/tutorials/basic/gstreamer-tools.html))
```C
pipeline =
      gst_parse_launch
      ("playbin uri=https://www.freedesktop.org/software/gstreamer-sdk/data/media/sintel_trailer-480p.webm",
      NULL);
```
This line is the heart of this tutorial, and exemplifies (thể hiện) two key points: [gst_parse_launch](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/documentation/gstreamer/gstparse.html#gst_parse_launch)() and [playbin](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/documentation/playback/playbin.html?gi-language=c#playbin).
## gst_prase_launch
GStreamer is a framework designed to handle multimedia flows. Media travels from the “source” elements (the producers), down to the “sink (chìm)” elements (the consumers (người tiêu dùng), passing through a series (loạt) of intermediate (trung gian) elements performing (biểu diễn) all kinds of tasks. The set of all the interconnected (kết nối nối với nhau) elements is called a “pipeline”.

In GStreamer you usually build the pipeline by manually (thủ công) assembling (lắp ráp) the individual (cá nhân) elements, but, when the pipeline is easy enough (đủ), and you do not need any advanced (nâng cao) features, you can take the shortcut (đường tắt): gst_parse_launch().

This function takes a textual (văn bản) representation (đại diện) of a pipeline and turns it into an actual pipeline, which is very handy. In fact, this function is so handy there is a tool built completely (hoàn toàn) around it which you will get very acquainted (hiểu biết) with (see [Basic tutorial 10: GStreamer tools](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/documentation/tutorials/basic/gstreamer-tools.html?gi-language=c) to learn about `gst-launch-1.0` and the `gst-launch-1.0` syntax).

## playbin
So, what kind of pipeline are we asking gst_parse_launch() to build for us? Here enters the second key point: We are building a pipeline composed of a single element called playbin.

playbin is a special element which acts as a source and as a sink, and is a whole (toàn bộ) pipeline. Internally (bên trong), it creates and connects all the necessary (cần thiết) elements to play your media, so you do not have to worry about it.

It does not allow the control granularity (chi tiết) that a manual (thủ công) pipeline does, but, still, it permits (cho phép) enough (đủ) customization (sự tùy chỉnh) to suffice (đủ) for a wide range of applications. Including this tutorial.

In this example, we are only passing one parameter to playbin, which is the URI of the media we want to play. Try changing it to something else! Whether it is an http:// or file:// URI, playbin will instantiate the appropriate (thích hợp) GStreamer source transparently (trong suốt)!

If you mistype (gõ nhầm) the URI, or the file does not exist, or you are missing a plug-in, GStreamer provides several notification mechanisms (cơ chế), but the only thing we are doing in this example is exiting on error, so do not expect (chờ đợi) much feedback.
```C
  /* Start playing */
  gst_element_set_state (pipeline, GST_STATE_PLAYING);
```
This line highlights (nổi bật) another interesting concept: the state (trạng thái). Every GStreamer element has an associated (liên kết) state, which you can more or less think of as the Play/Pause button in your regular DVD player. For now, suffice to say that playback will not start unless you set the pipeline to the PLAYING state.

In this line, gst_element_set_state() is setting pipeline (our only element, remember) to the PLAYING state, thus (do đó) initiating playback.
```C
  /* Wait until error or EOS */
  bus = gst_element_get_bus (pipeline);
  msg =
      gst_bus_timed_pop_filtered (bus, GST_CLOCK_TIME_NONE,
      GST_MESSAGE_ERROR | GST_MESSAGE_EOS);
```
These lines will wait until an error occurs (xảy ra) or the end of the stream is found. gst_element_get_bus() retrieves (lấy lại) the pipeline's bus, and gst_bus_timed_pop_filtered() will block until you receive either an ERROR or an EOS (End-Of-Stream) through that bus. Do not worry much about this line, the GStreamer bus is explained in [Basic tutorial 2: GStreamer concepts](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/documentation/tutorials/basic/concepts.html?gi-language=c).

And that's it! From this point onwards (trở đi), GStreamer takes care of everything. Execution will end when the media reaches its end (EOS) or an error is encountered (đc gặp) (try closing the video window, or unplugging (rút) the network cable (cáp)). The application can always be stopped by pressing control-C in the console.
## Cleanup
Before terminating (chấm dứt) the application, though, there is a couple (1 vài) of things we need to do to tidy up (dọn dẹp) correctly (chính xác) after ourselves (chính chúng ta).
```C
  /* Free resources */
  if (msg != NULL)
    gst_message_unref (msg);
  gst_object_unref (bus);
  gst_element_set_state (pipeline, GST_STATE_NULL);
  gst_object_unref (pipeline);
```
Always read the documentation of the functions you use, to know if you should free the objects they return after using them.

In this case, gst_bus_timed_pop_filtered() returned a message which needs to be freed with gst_message_unref() (more about messages in Basic tutorial 2: GStreamer concepts).

gst_element_get_bus() added a reference to the bus that must be freed with gst_object_unref(). Setting the pipeline to the NULL state will make sure it frees any resources it has allocated (đc phân bổ) (More about states in Basic tutorial 3: Dynamic pipelines). Finally, unreferencing the pipeline will destroy it, and all its contents.
## 3. Conclusion
And so ends your first tutorial with GStreamer. We hope its brevity (ngắn gọn) serves as an example of how powerful this framework is!

Let's recap (tóm tắt) a bit. Today we have learned:

* How to initialize GStreamer using gst_init().

* How to quickly build a pipeline from a textual description using gst_parse_launch().

* How to create an automatic playback pipeline using playbin.

* How to signal GStreamer to start playback using gst_element_set_state().

* How to sit back and relax, while GStreamer takes care of everything, using gst_element_get_bus() and gst_bus_timed_pop_filtered().

The next tutorial will keep introducing more basic GStreamer elements, and show you how to build a pipeline manually.

It has been a pleasure having you here, and see you soon!
