# TENSORS
Tensors are a specialized (chuyen nganh) data structure that are very similar to arrays and matrices. In PyTorch, we use tensors to encode the inputs and outputs of a model, as well as the model’s parameters.  

Tensors are similar to NumPy’s ndarrays, except that tensors can run on GPUs or other hardware accelerators (may gia toc). In fact, tensors and NumPy arrays can often share the same underlying memory (bo nho co ban), eliminating (loai bo) the need to copy data (see Bridge with NumPy). Tensors are also optimized for automatic differentiation (we’ll see more about that later in the Autograd section). If you’re familiar with ndarrays, you’ll be right at home with the Tensor API. If not, follow along!
```python
import torch
import numpy as np
```
## 1. Initializing a Tensor
Tensors can be initialized in various ways. Take a look at the following examples:  
**Directly from data**  
Tensors can be created directly from data. The data type is automatically inferred (suy ra).
```python
data = [[1, 2], [3, 4]]
x_data = torch.tensor(data)
```
**From a NumPy array**  
Tensors can be created from NumPy arrays
```python
np_array = np.array(data)
x_np = torch.from_numpy(np_array)
```
**From another tensor:**  
The new tensor retains (giu lai) the properties (tinh chat) (shape, datatype) of the argument (doi so) tensor, unless (tru khi) explicitly (ro rang) overridden (ghi de).
```python
x_ones = torch.ones_like(x_data) # retains the properties of x_data
print(f"Ones Tensor: \n {x_ones} \n")

x_rand = torch.rand_like(x_data, dtype=torch.float) # overrides the datatype of x_data
print(f"Random Tensor: \n {x_rand} \n")
```
**With random or constant values:**  
shape is a tuple of tensor dimensions (kich thuoc). In the functions below, it determines (xac dinh) the dimensionality of the output tensor.
```python
shape = (2,3,)
rand_tensor = torch.rand(shape)
ones_tensor = torch.ones(shape)
zeros_tensor = torch.zeros(shape)

print(f"Random Tensor: \n {rand_tensor} \n")
print(f"Ones Tensor: \n {ones_tensor} \n")
print(f"Zeros Tensor: \n {zeros_tensor}")
```
## 2. Attributes of a Tensor
Tensor attributes describe their shape, datatype, and the device on which they are stored.
```python
tensor = torch.rand(3,4)

print(f"Shape of tensor: {tensor.shape}")
print(f"Datatype of tensor: {tensor.dtype}")
print(f"Device tensor is stored on: {tensor.device}")
```
## 2. Operations (hoat dong) on Tensors
Over 100 tensor operations, including arithmetic (so hoc), linear algebra (dai so), matrix manipulation (transposing, indexing, slicing), sampling and more are comprehensively described [here](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/torch.html).

Each of these operations can be run on the GPU (at typically (thong thuong) higher speeds than on a CPU). If you’re using Colab, allocate (chi dinh) a GPU by going to Runtime > Change runtime type > GPU.

By default, tensors are created on the CPU. We need to explicitly move tensors to the GPU using **.to** method (after checking for GPU availability (kha dung)). Keep in mind that copying large tensors across devices can be expensive (ton kem) in terms (ve) of time and memory!
```python
# We move our tensor to the GPU if available
if torch.cuda.is_available():
  tensor = tensor.to('cuda')
```
## 3. Bridge with NumPy
### 3.1. Tensor to NumPy array
### 3.2. NumPy array to Tensor
