## 1. An Overview
**Cython** is a programming leanguage that make writing C extensions for the Python language as easy as Python itself.
It aims (muctieu) to become a superset of the Python language which give it high-level, object-oriented (huong doi tuonng), functional, and dynamic (nang dong) 
programming.
Its main feature on top of these is suppor for *optinal static type declarations* as part of the language.
The source code gets translated into optimized C/C++ code and compiled (bien dich) as Python extension modules. This allows for both very fast program execution (thuc thi)
and tight (chat che)
integeration (tich hop) with external (ben ngoai) C libraries, while keeping up the high progammer productivity (nang suat) for which the Python language is well known.

The primary Python execution environment is commonly (thuong) referred (dc goi, gioi thieu) to as CPython, as it is written in C. 
Other major (chinh) implementations (trien khai) use Java (Jython [Jython]), C# (IronPython [IronPython]) and Python itself (PyPy [PyPy]). 
Written in C, CPython has been conducive (co loi) to wrapping many external libraries that interface through the C language. 
It has, however, remained (van) non trivial (dang ke) to write the necessary (can thiet) glue (keo) code in C, especially for programmers who are more fluent (troi chay) 
in a high-level language like Python than in a close-to-the-metal language like C.

Originally based on the well-known Pyrex [Pyrex], the Cython project has approached (den gan) this problem by means of a source code compiler that translates 
Python code to equivalent (tuong duong) C code. This code is executed within the CPython runtime environment, but at the speed of compiled C and with the ability (co kha nang)
to call directly into C libraries. At the same time, it keeps the original interface of the Python source code, which makes it directly usable from Python code. 
These two-fold (gap 2 lan) characteristics enable Cython’s two major use cases: extending (mo rong) the CPython interpreter (trinh thong dich) with fast binary (nhi phan) modules, 
and interfacing Python code with external C libraries.
